Add doc for volume health monitoring (#27060)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/storage/volume-health-monitoring.md

---
reviewers:
- jsafrane
- saad-ali
- msau42
- xing-yang
--
title: Volume Health Monitoring 
content_type: concept
---

<!-- overview -->

{{< glossary_tooltip text="CSI" term_id="csi" >}} volume health monitoring allows CSI Drivers to detect abnormal volume conditions from the underlying storage systems and report them as events on {{< glossary_tooltip text="PVCs" term_id="persistent-volume-claim" >}} or {{< glossary_tooltip text="Pods" term_id="pod" >}}.

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.21" state="alpha" >}}

<!-- body -->

## Volume Health Monitoring

> The Volume Health Monitoring feature is part of Kubernetes implementation of Container Storage Interface (CSI). The Volume Health Monitoring feature is impelmeted in two components: External Health Monitor Controller and Kubelet.

Author: Fixed.

> The External Health Monitor Controller will be deployed as a [sidecar container](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/deploying.html) together with the CSI controller driver. It triggers controller RPC to check the health condition of the CSI volumes. When an abnormal volume condition is detected on a CSI volume, an event will be reported on the PVC.

Reviewer: I think this may be getting into too many details for end users. For end users, they need to check if their CSI driver supports this feature and that's about it right?

Reviewer 2: > I think this may be getting into too many details for end users. 

:+1: / I agree.

Author: I removed the details about the sidecar.

> The external controller sidecar container will also watch for node failure events. This can be enabled by setting the `enable-node-watcher` flag to true. This will only have effects on the local volume type with a CSI driver. When a node failure event is detected, an event will be reported on the PVC to indicate that pods using this PVC are on a failed node.

Reviewer: "local volume type": is this the "kubernetes.io/local" type?

Reviewer 2: Hmm. Readers might infer that this is describing https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#local, which is usually written as `local` (and isn't provisioned using CSI).

Author: The original intention was for this node watcher to be used only by local PV, however, there isn't specific check to make sure this is only used by local PV so it is really up to the user to decide whether to enable it or not.  I'm going to remove this line about local PV as it can be used by any PV when the flag is enabled.

If a CSI Driver supports Volume Health Monitoring feature from the node side, an event will be reported on every Pod using the PVC when an abnormal volume condition is detected on a CSI volume.

> Note that you need to enable the `CSIVolumeHealth` feature gate to use this feature.

Reviewer: Also add a link to the csi drivers page where you can see a list of csi drivers that support this feature.

Author: Done

---
reviewers:
- jsafrane
- saad-ali
- msau42
- xing-yang
--
title: Volume Health Monitoring 
content_type: concept
---

<!-- overview -->

> This page describes the CSI Volume Health Monitoring feature. CSI Volume Health Monitoring allows CSI Drivers to detect abnormal volume conditions from the underlying storage systems and report them as events on PVCs or Pods.

Reviewer 2: I'd write:
```suggestion
{{< glossary_tooltip text="CSI" term_id="csi" >}} volume health monitoring allows
CSI Drivers to detect abnormal volume conditions from the underlying storage systems
and report them as events on {{< glossary_tooltip text="PVCs" term_id="persistent-volume-claim" >}}
or {{< glossary_tooltip text="Pods" term_id="pod" >}}.
```

Author: Done

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.21" state="alpha" >}}

<!-- body -->

> ## Volume Health Monitoring

Reviewer: A lot of this section talks about how drivers can implement the feature, which seems better suited for the CSI driver docs page?

The Kubernetes docs should focus on how an end user can use the feature.

Reviewer 2: The page _should_ mention that you need to enable the VolumeHealth feature gate to benefit from it.

Author: Removed the paragraphs regarding implementation.

The Volume Health Monitoring feature is part of Kubernetes implementation of Container Storage Interface (CSI). The Volume Health Monitoring feature is impelmeted in two components: External Health Monitor Controller and Kubelet.

> The External Health Monitor Controller will be deployed as a sidecar together with the CSI controller driver. It triggers controller RPC to check the health condition of the CSI volumes.

Reviewer 2: - I'd write “sidecar container” in case the reader is not familiar with sidecars
- We should give the reader a hint about _how_ that sidecar container is deployed
   - do they define it in a Pod template?
   - does the control plane inject it?

Author: Changed to "sidecar container" and included a link to this doc which has a diagram for the sidecar.

> The external controller sidecar will also watch for node failure events. This can be enabled by setting the `enable-node-watcher` flag to true. This will only have effects on local PVs now. When a node failure event is detected, an event will be reported on the PVC to indicate that pods using this PVC are on a failed node.

Reviewer: By  "local PV", do you mean the in-tree "kubernetes.io/local" volume type, or just in general, local volume types?

Author: This does not refer to the in-tree "kubernetes.io/local" volume type because the volume health feature is only available to CSI drivers.  So this refers to local volume type which has a CSI driver.  Let me clarify that in the doc.
